>> Kyle Simpson: Some thoughts about
strict mode for just a moment.
If you're not already
using strict mode for
all of your programs,
what are you waiting for?
Because there's a difference
between I'm a late adopter and
I just missed the train entirely.
Now, I was a late adopter
with strict mode.
I did not adopt it when it first came
around, but that was in 2008, 2009.
It's 2017 as we record this.
That's a really long time.
Restrict mode is well-established.
It is absolutely, without question,
the future of the language.
The inevitable future of the language.
The more that they add to the language,
the more surface area they're adding
that requires or implies strict mode.
So at this point, it is
in your worst interest to continue
to avoid or not adopt strict mode.
Now [COUGH] I wanna address this for
a moment and
this is why I have this slide here to talk
about strict mode, because it's really
important to have the right frame of
mind approach with strict mode is about.
First off,
many people think of strict mode.
The opposite of strict mode,
they will refer to this as sloppy mode and
I disagree with that interpretation
of the difference between lose,
I mean, the difference between strict and
whatever this non-strict is.
In the same way that I would never
talk about a code base that has
a lot of lines of code to it,
I would never call that a fat code base.
Because to me,
that terminology is unempathetic.
It's insensitive.
It can offend the people.
So there's a sense among some people,
many of the people that run the spec
committee that you should never,
ever write code in the non-strict mode.
And so we should make you feel bad,
if you're writing code that's still
in non-strict mode and that is not at
all the message that I wanna get across.
That's like an insulting or
a punitive way to look at it.
And even the name sort of suggests like
an overbearing parent that won't let
you go out and stay out past 8 o'clock and
you're like, come on.
Why can't I stay out past 8 o'clock?
Why you gotta restrict me?
I need my freedom.
Even the name of it suggests something
of a negative connotation and
I don't think that's helpful.
So, I wanna reframe for you the right
way to think about strict mode.
First off, all the changes that strict
mode brought about in ES5 are all listed,
actually any changes.
They're all listed in
an appendix of the spec.
I think it's appendix E.
It's right there in the spec.
There's just a list one after the other
and they all start kinda like this.
It is an error if and then dot, dot, dot.
It just fills it in.
Essentially, it's listing out
a set of things that become
errors which used to not be error.
So, that feels like that's
a restriction against you.
As a matter of fact,
there are some very prominent
members of our community who
have vocally said on many
occasions that they
are resisting strict mode.
That they don't want to switch to it,
because they don't wanna be restricted
from doing stuff to the point that
one of them went so far as to say,
I'm gonna write all of my code such that
it will break if somebody tries to run it
in strict mode.
Like not just I'm not gonna pay attention,
I'm gonna literally try to make
my code break in strict mode.
That is an extreme deal.
That is not something that
we should wanna emulate.
>> Kyle Simpson: So,
how should we think about strict mode?
What's the proper mindset to have for
strict mode?
Let me try to help with that.
If you go through and
you read all those items in the appendix
instead of reading them as restrictions,
instead of reading those things where
they're slapping you wrist and
saying, stop doing that thing.
I want you to think about it like this.
Because virtually,
all of those items that are listed there
are things that you do in your
code that make it harder for
the JavaScript engine to optimize
the performance of your code.
>> Kyle Simpson: If you go through and
you say,
why can't I do implicit global variables?
Well, you know why?
Most pragmatic reason means other than the
fact that it's a mistake in a bad design,
the most pragmatic reason why you
shouldn't do it is because it's a lot
slower to create a variable at runtime
than have to modify an existing lexical
scope as opposed to being able to
figure it out at compile time.
It's slower.
It's going to slow down
the execution of your code.
So, if you go through
each one of these and
you reason through why would
they have restricted that?
Why would they have prevented that?
Most of them are things where if you
were doing that thing in your code,
you're making your code
harder to optimize.
When viewed from that perspective, strict
mode is really like a set of suggestions
that you really ought to follow,
so that your code will run faster.
And I don't know about you, but I need all
the help I can get writing optimal code.
So, sign me up.
If there's a mode that I can adhere
to that helps me from making the dumb
mistakes that accidentally make
my code go slower, I'm on board.
But I didn't have the right mindset, which
why I was kind of a late adopter and there
was also a set of myths about strict mode
and I wanna clear those myths up for you.
One of those myths was well,
we don't use strict mode yet.
Because some of the libraries
we use don't use strict code.
We load in jQuery and
it doesn't use it or whatever.
I mean, they all use it now.
But like you used to say,
well, I don't know.
I use some like third party ad code and
they haven't updated their code in like 15
years and they don't use strict mode,
so we don't use strict mode.
This is a fundamental misunderstanding
of how the mechanism works.
As a matter of fact,
it's a fundamental misunderstanding
of how JavaScript itself works.
JavaScript programs are file based.
You have an application
you ship in production.
Most of you probably work on web apps.
Most of you have probably built
an application that has anywhere from
a few to a dozen, maybe a couple
hundred JavaScript files in it and
you think of that as one program.
That's not how JavaScript thinks of it.
Every single file is in
a completely separate program.
Now, what they do share is they
all share the global scope.
So, that's good.
That makes it easy for us to combine
multiple programs into one application.
But from the perspective of JavaScript and
rules that it applies,
if I put use strict at the top of this
file and then I load in a whole separate
file with a whole separate set of code and
that file does not have a use strict
directive in it, that code is not
subject to strict mode regulations.
Only the code that I actually
put the use strict in.
So if your application has some
files that can be strict mode and
some that can't,
stop worrying about the ones that can't.
Just focus on the ones that can.
The only time this is really a problem
is when you do something silly like take
somebody else's code arbitrarily and
concatenate it with your code.
That is a terrible idea for a whole bunch
of reasons not the least of which is,
you're now asking that code to run
in the strict mode of your file and
that may not work.
So, do not under any circumstances.
And if you're doing it now,
go home and change it tonight.
Do not bundle somebody else's
untrusted code with your trusted code.
That is never a good idea for
security reasons, for caching reasons, for
performance reasons.
That is just never a good idea.
At a minimum, you should have a bundle
of untrusted stuff that comes from other
people and
a bundle of trusted stuff that you wrote.
Keep those two separate.
And the stuff that you wrote, you should
be fully in control with whether or
not that's strict mode.
If you have stuff that is not strict mode
yet, don't concatenate into that bundle.
Come up with a third bundle, for example.
The other thing to know about strict
mode is that it's not all or nothing.
I've put it at the top of this file,
which means apply it to
the entire contents of the file.
But if for some reason there was some
functions in this code which could not do
that and others could, I could do the use
strict on a function by function basis.
So, I could start out by going and
putting that you strict in every
single function in my file.
And then if there was a problem
if I exposed an error or a bug or
I broke something, I could either go
fix it, which is what I ought to do.
Or at a minimum, just take out that used
strict for that one offending functions,
leaving it in all the other
places where it works fine.
Preventing me from doing stupid stuff
like implicitly creating globals or
repeating parameter names,
or other things like that.
So you can go on a function by function
basis and you should fix those problems
rather than cover them up or ignore them,
but you can do that little by little.
And eventually, someday every function in
your file will have the use strict in it
and there won't be any bugs and
then guess what?
Just go take all the use stricts out of
the functions and put it up at the top.
Problem solved.
So the second myth is that you don't have
to adopt strict mode all or nothing, but
I repeat my earlier admonition.
What are you waiting for?
This is the future of the langue and
this is the way we should be writing code.
Get into that habit of starting every
file and I still have to force myself to
remember, but
they use strict at the top of every file.
There is maybe some day in the future and
I'm really hoping for
it where we don't have
to opt into strict mode.
We have to opt out of strict mode.
I hope that day comes.
But right now,
you're gonna have to get into that habit.
If you're already using a trans
filer like babble or something,
it's already putting your
code into strict mode.
So, you're good.
But if you're not doing that, go and
put strict mode into all your programs.